#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass IEEEtran
\begin_preamble

\input{tex/preamble.tex}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\pdf_title "Bootstrapping bilinear gradient dynamics sensor models"
\pdf_author "Andrea Censi, Richard M. Murray"
\pdf_subject "robotics"
\pdf_keywords "robotics bootstrapping learning "
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks true
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref page
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Conclusions
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "sec:conclusion"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Fast robots need fast sensors.
 A 
\emph on
dynamic vision sensor
\emph default
 (DVS) returns changes in the visual field with a latency of a few microseconds.
 This technology is the most promising candidate for enabling highly aggressive
 autonomous maneuvers for flying robots.
 The current prototypes suffer a few limitations, such as a relatively low
 resolution, which are being worked upon.
 In the mean time, the sensing pipeline must be completely re-designed to
 take advantage of the low latency.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This paper has presented the first pose tracking application using DVS data.
 We have shown that the DVS can detect Active LEDs Markers (
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
ALMs
\end_layout

\end_inset

) and disambiguate their identity if different blinking frequencies are
 used.
 The algorithm that the we developed uses a Bayesian framework, in which
 we accumulate evidence of every single event into 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

evidence maps
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 that are tuned to a particular frequency.
 The temporal interval can be tuned and it is a tradeoff between latency
 and precision.
 In our experimental conditions it was possible to have a latency of only
 1
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

ms.
 After detection, we used a particle filter and a multi-hypothesis tracker.
 
\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
On top of detection using these evidence maps, we use a particle filter
 to evolve the state of each candidate detection and a stage ensuring coherent
 conditions.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We have evaluated the use of this technology for tracking the motion of
 a quadrotor during an aggressive maneuver.
 Experiments show that the DVS is able to reacquire stable tracking with
 negligible delay as soon as the LEDs are visible again, without suffering
 from motion blur, which limits the traditional CMOS-based conventional
 feature tracking solution.
 However, the precision in reconstructing the pose is limited because of
 the low sensor resolution.
 Future work involving the hardware include improving the 
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
ALMs
\end_layout

\end_inset

 by increasing their power and their angular emittance field, as we have
 found these to be the main limitations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In conclusion, DVS-based 
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
ALM
\end_layout

\end_inset

 tracking promises to be a feasible technology that can be used for fast
 tracking in robotics.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Future work involving the software includes improving the tracking resolution
 using the the 
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Future work
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
other factors that impact performance
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Mounting on another
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Using the DVS for tracking has some clear advantages as the high sampling
 speed enables the tracking of LEDs pulsed with frequencies above a 1000
 Hz.
 Compared to normal high speed cameras, the data output and thus the processing
 is reduced, as only change is advertised by the camera.
 This makes the DVS also interesting for embedded processing.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Nevertheless, we used active markers in our experiment which are easier
 to identify than image features.
 Due to the fact that the DVS not only needs motion in order to produce
 input but also has a lower resolution than conventional imaging sensors
 it is not clear yet, how well features from the environment can be used
 as a tracking reference.
 The pose estimation has proven to be more accurate than PTAM and should
 thus perform well in helicopter navigation.
 Nevertheless, the low resolution of the DVS limits the range in which a
 helicopter can be tracked robustly.
 As there are possible improvements to our algorithm in terms of stability
 and robustness, we reckon that is should be possible to even improve the
 pose estimation accuracy on the DVS.
 A possible approach could include considering not only local maxima from
 single pixels, but averaging over several pixels activated by an LED.
 Alternatively another particle filter could be used to smoothen the position
 readings over time.
 This approach would also help with the occasional appearance of misdetections.
 On the hardware side we found a couple of improvements as well.
 For further experiments reliable drone control is important.
 While reducing or better balancing the payload could have an impact, we
 were also not sure if the highly used rotor blades or other parts of the
 quadcopter were responsible for the unstable flight.
 As recalibration of the internals seems unfeasible one might also consider
 using a different drone in the future.
 To improve visibility of the markers, LEDs with higher angle and power
 output would be beneficial.
 This requires some additional hardware though which needs to be considered
 again in terms of payload.
 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Apart from a number of possible improvements, the approach has shown to
 be feasible and has demonstrated the advantages of using and event-driven
 approach for vision based robotics.
 
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
medskip
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent

\series bold
Acknowledgements
\series default
: We gratefully acknowledge the contribution of Christian Saner for helping
 with the ARDrone software development, the assistance of Yves Albers-Sch
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
"o
\end_layout

\end_inset

nberg as our pilot during test flights and in recording ROS logs, and the
 assistance of Matia Pizzoli in the CMOS-based tracking experiments.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
